---
title: Research
cms_exclude: true
date: '2022-10-06T00:00:00+01:00'
weight: 2
classes: wide
view: 2
---


## **[What drives behavioral or mispricing-based factors](https://github.com/DijunLiu1995/dijunliu.github.io/blob/main/static/uploads/whatdrivesfactor.pdf)(Job Market Paper)**
<font size=4>Factor models are important to explain returns and to calculate the required rate of return. We analyze the risk associated with the outstanding mispricing factors proposed recently that outperform other factor models in explaining a broad range of return anomalies. Present variance decomposition suggests that cash flow news is the main driver for all of these factors and their mean-variance efficient portfolios. The explanatory power of these factors stems from the ability of their cash flow news to explain anomalies' unexpected return news. The beta analysis also indicates that the cross-sectional variation of market beta comes from the variation in cash flow components of beta.</font>

## **Working papers**

### [What drives short duration premium](https://dijunliu.netlify.app/uploads/Whatdrivesduration.pdf)
<font size=4>Like bond duration, equity duration by definition is the weighted cash flow maturity and measures the sensitivity of the price to the change of interest rate. Using a present value decomposition approach, I calculate the contribution of cash flow news and discount rate news to the unexpected returns for portfolios formed based on equity duration. Surprisingly, the cash flow news is the main driver across portfolios that are composed of stocks with long duration or short duration. Stocks characterized by a shorter duration earns return premium over stocks with a longer duration. This short duration premium is robust, and subsumes value premium even when intangible capital is considered. Portfolio analyses indicate that the premium is concentrated within small stocks and stocks that are possibly short-sell constrained.</font>

### [Intangible Capital and the Value-Growth Anomaly](https://dijunliu.netlify.app/uploads/valueanomaly.pdf)
<font size=4>In this paper, I study the variation of the book-to-market (B/M) ratio across firms and over time. The B/M ratio, a firm characteristic defined as the book value over the market value of equity, plays an important role in finance theory and practice. In this chapter, I first replicate and extend the Chapter of “Value Premium” in  Bali, Engle, and Murray (2016). Second, recent work debates on whether the B/M ratio should also account for intangible capital. I estimate three versions of internally generated intangible capital, use it to adjust B/M ratio and confirm that including intangible capital does improve the performance of value strategy. One of the contributions of this paper is to compare methods to estimate intangibles. The long-short value premium and the cumulative return of HML factor favor bm<sup>Eisfeldt</sup> compared with bm<sup>Peters</sup> and bm<sup>Ewens</sup>. Nevertheless, none of them can expand the mean-variance frontier spanned by four other factors, and they all experience persistent drawdowns in recent decades. Third, to delve into the time-series and cross-sectional behavior of B/M ratio and its associated value premium, I conduct two sub-sample analyses: pre- or post-1999 analysis and high tech sector or not analysis. The pre- or post-1999 analysis indicates that the positive relation between all the four versions of B/M and future stock returns is much weaker post-1999. High tech sector or not analysis does not corroborate the argument that the death of value strategy is caused by the conservative accounting biases in book value. The selection of a better estimation method for intangibles is hampered as it changes across contexts. Last, I show that instead of using intangible capital to adjust book value, leveraging the ratio of intangible capital over market value can deliver HML factors which feature much higher cumulative returns and smaller drawdowns in recent decades. The drawdowns of HML factors are closely associated with the change of relative valuation.</fontsize>
